Well we finally come to the part of the process where we can actually begin animating.
There are a couple of housekeeping chores that we should do before we begin I think one of the things
I should do is take the camera and the light in the scene.
And I will move them to layer 2 just so they're out of the way.
In addition as I go through the process of animating here I don't want to accidentally select say the
Mac or the floor or a pillar so I should really go through and restrict the selection of these so I
can't accidentally select them.
For example say this floor if I select the floor and then hover over the outliner and press the period
key on the numpad it will frame up that object.
So I can see it here.
I'm going to go ahead and click on the arrow and turn off the select ability of that.
So I can't select it at all.
And I want to go through and do a similar thing to the rest of the objects in the room.
Now for the Mac I should probably go ahead and select or restrict these as well
and for the fingers I'll just select the top arrow here and just click and drag down to de-select them
and I'll restrict the light on the Mac as well.
All right so that ensures that I won't accidentally restrict any part of the MX body while we're animating.
I can only select the actual rig itself.
The next thing I should do is set the frames per second.
Over here in the render panel if I scroll down here I can see frame rate.
So I've currently got it set to 24 frames per second so that's what I would suggest you do as well.
The next thing I need to do is kind of think about how long my animation is going to be.
Currently I'm at 250 frames and that's just over 10 seconds what I'd like to do is probably set it to
15 seconds.
I'm not sure but I just want to have enough time to get all the action in that I want and you can extend
this at any point in time.
So this isn't like it's written in stone or anything but at 24 frames a second time's 15 seconds.
I can actually type.
I can actually click in here and type 15 and an asterix times 24 and hit enter and that will give me
360 frames.
So I know now that my time line is going to be 15 seconds long.
So I can click with the middle mouse button here and drag and move the timeline here.
And then I can also scroll the mouse wheel and zoom in or out on the timeline.
So I'll just Center up my timeline here this green line on the timeline is an indicator of what frame
we're on as we play our animation.
If I hit play here you can see that the animation begins playing and we can see where we are on the
timeline as it plays through.
We'll hit pause here and then I'll hit this button to go back to the beginning for each major movement
in the animation we will be putting a key frame at particular points on the timeline and all a key frame
is just a marker at a specific time and a specific place.
So the process will be that will move the mic and pose it in a particular position at a particular place
in time and then will insert a key frame and you can see appear in the Tools tab that we've got insert
key frame and the shortcut is the key and remove keyframe and the shortcut for that is Alt.
I now up here in the screen out menu we could change to the animation screen the layout would click
that.
Now we see that we've got a couple of things going on here.
We've got our normal perspective view here that we can pose and move our character.
Over here we've got what's called the dope sheet and this is really just a spreadsheet of all of our
key frames.
So as we create key frames for each of these each of these objects here on the Meck we will see them
arranged in the dope sheet over here.
Down here is the graph editor and the graph editor is where we will actually adjust our curves between
the keyframes animation programs by default will attempt to create smooth curves between each of our
key frames.
It'll create what's called in-betweens up here in the right hand corner is another 3D view.
And this one we can use to see or scene through our render camera.
Now what I'll need to do is select this layer that the camera is on and let me zoom out a bit and just
select that.
Now if I hover over this and press the zero key it should frame up the scene now within the camera.
I think that about does it for the prep work for animation in the next video will start animating the
Mac.